What is ansible ?

Ansible is an open-source IT automation tool used to configure systems, deploy software, and manage infrastructure through simple,
human-readable instructions.


Things can perform using ansible across remote server :

Install and Configure Software
		Install packages like Nginx, MySQL, Docker, etc.
		Manage configuration files and ensure services are running.
		Apply consistent setup across many servers at once.

Manage Users and Permissions
		Create or remove user accounts.
		Set SSH keys.
		Control sudo privileges and security policies.

Automate Cloud Resources
		Provision and configure servers in AWS, Azure, and GCP.
		Manage load balancers, storage, security groups, and more.
		Integrate with infrastructure-as-code workflows.

Orchestrate Multi-Step Deployments
		Deploy applications with multiple steps (build → copy → configure → start services).
		Coordinate changes across many machines in a specific order.
		Enable zero-downtime rolling updates.

Enforce Consistent Configuration Across Servers
		Ensure all servers always match the desired configuration.
		Detect configuration drift and automatically correct it.
		Keep large fleets standardized and compliant.




Install Python 3 and pip3
		cmd: sudo dnf install -y python3 python3-pip
		Installs Python 3 and the pip3 package manager from CentOS repositories.
		Required before installing Ansible via pip.
		
Upgrade pip, setuptools, and wheel
		cmd: sudo pip3 install --upgrade pip setuptools wheel
		Upgrades pip and its build tools to the latest versions.
		Ensures smooth installation of older Ansible versions like 4.8.0.
		
(Optional) Reinstall pip3
		cmd: sudo dnf install -y python3-pip
		Ensures pip3 is properly installed for all users.
		Sometimes used to fix PATH inconsistencies.
		
Verify the location of pip3
		cmd: which pip3
		Example output: /usr/local/bin/pip3
		Shows where pip3 is installed.
		Root may not have this directory in its PATH, so we will use the full path.
		
Install Ansible 4.8.0 globally using pip3
		cmd: sudo /usr/local/bin/pip3 install ansible==4.8.0
		Installs Ansible 4.8.0 system-wide.
		Installing via /usr/local/bin/pip3 ensures root uses the correct pip3 binary.
		Binaries like ansible, ansible-playbook, etc., are placed in /usr/local/bin, which is usually available to all system users.
		
Verify Ansible installation
		cmd: ansible --version


Confirms that Ansible 4.8.0 is installed and globally accessible.